I wanted to just briefly cover
the other hooks that we're not
gonna talk about today.
One of them is useImperativeHandle.
I used to cover this one,
this is mostly for library authors.
The example that I used to get for
this is you have a huge form and you
have validation on the form and you wanna
highlight a input that has an error on it.
But how do you reach
into a child's input and
highlight their input inside of a child?
You can kinda do this reverse API thing
where a child can offer a method to
the parent to call,
that is what useImperativeHandle is for.
It's basically for a child to
expose functionality to a parent.
Very rare, and again, I have never
used it, but if you're making a form
validation library, that would be a valid
reason to use useImperativeHandle.
It's a really weird handshake,
cuz you have to use a ref and
then the parent uses a ref and
passes into the child.
The child uses the ref to expose a
function that exposes back to the parent,
that's how it works.
If you're more curious than that
explanation, V7 covers this,
so just hop into the V7 hooks and depth
section, and I give you that example.
But I've stopped covering it because
I don't see people using it, and
therefore I'm not gonna burden
you much more than that.
UseDebugValue, this is I
have a custom hook and
I want to expose a debug
value in the React Dev Tools.
Again, mostly for libraries,
not for individual people.
But we had the useBreedList hook, if we
wanted to expose what animal was passed
in last, you could use a debug value
that logs it out in the React Dev Tools.
So, again, mostly for
library authors, not for app authors,
but it is there if you need it.
UseDeferredValue and useTransition, I'm
just gonna not talk about these right now.
Actually, I added a section
that we go into these in depth.
So for now, just know that that's coming.
useSyncExternalStore, this is
exclusively for libraries.
They say that no one in app world should
be using this, but basically this allows
things like Redux and MobX to create
subscriptions internally to React.
And then useInsertionEffect,
this happens as opposed to layoutEffect,
which happens after a component renders,
useInsertionEffect happens before.
This is for CSS and JS libraries
like styled-components and Emotion.
Again, not for you, and
I really can't fathom other than CSS,
why you would wanna use it, but
it is something that exists now.
This is new to React 18.
They actually say explicitly in the docs,
if you're not doing CSS in JS,
please don't use this.
So, that's why I'm telling you it exists,
but ignore it.
That is pretty definitively besides
these two that we're about to talk to,
deferredValue and Transition,
all the hooks that you'll ever need to
use that are the primitive ones to React.
Everything else is just combining
all those things together to get
the functionality that you want.